XChainBridge Docs (#2305)
XRPLF/xrpl-dev-portal: content/concepts/xrpl-sidechains/witness-servers.md

---
html: witness-servers.html
parent: xrpl-sidechains.html
blurb: A witness server is a light-weight server that witnesses and signs transactions between the XRP Ledger and another chain.
status: not_enabled
labels:
  - Blockchain
  - Interoperability
---
# Witness Servers

> [[Source]](https://github.com/seelabs/xbridge_witness "Source")

Reviewer: Will this repository be moved to XRPLF in the future?

---
html: witness-servers.html
parent: xrpl-sidechains.html

> blurb: A witness server is a light-weight server that witnesses and signs transactions between the XRP Ledger and another chain.

Reviewer 2: lightweight [one word]

status: not_enabled
labels:
  - Blockchain
  - Interoperability
---
# Witness Servers

_(Requires the [XChainBridge amendment][] :not_enabled:)_

> **TODO**: Add link to sourcefiles after it's moved to XRPL repo.

Reviewer 3: Don't forget to update this TODO before merging.

> A _witness server_ acts as a neutral witness for transactions between a locking chain and an issuing chain. It listens to the door accounts on both sides of a bridge and signs attestations that confirm a transaction occurred. They are essentially acting as an oracle to “prove” that value was locked or burned on a source account, which allows the recipient to then claim (via minting or unlocking) the equivalent funds on the destination account.

Reviewer 2: Why is _prove_ in quotation marks?

The bridge between the locking chain and the issuing chain includes the following information in its configuration: 

* Witness servers that monitor transactions on the bridge. You can choose one or more witness servers. 

> * Fee for witness servers for their service.

Reviewer 2: Fees collected by witness servers for their service.

    },
    "RewardAccount": "rpFp36UHW6FpEcZjZqq5jSJWY6UCj3k4Es"
  },
  "IssuingChain": {
    "Endpoint": {
      "Host": "127.0.0.1",
      "Port": 6007
    },
    "TxnSubmit": {
      "ShouldSubmit": true,
      "SigningKeySeed": "shUe3eSgGK4e6xMFuCakZnxsMN1uk",
      "SigningKeyType": "ed25519",
      "SubmittingAccount": "rpFp36UHW6FpEcZjZqq5jSJWY6UCj3k4Es"
    },
    "RewardAccount": "rpFp36UHW6FpEcZjZqq5jSJWY6UCj3k4Es"
  },
  "RPCEndpoint": {
    "Host": "127.0.0.1",
    "Port": 6010
  },
  "DBDir": "/var/lib/witness/witness01/db",
  "LogFile": "/var/log/witness/witness01.log",
  "SigningKeySeed": "spkHEwDKeChm8PAFApLkF1E2sDs6t",
  "SigningKeyType": "ed25519",
  "XChainBridge": {
    "LockingChainDoor": "r3nCVTbZGGYoWvZ58BcxDmiMUU7ChMa1eC",
    "LockingChainIssue": {
      "currency": "XRP"
    },
    "IssuingChainDoor": "rHb9CJAWyB4rj91VRWn96DkukG4bwdtyTh",
    "IssuingChainIssue": {
      "currency": "XRP"
    }
  },
  "Admin": {
    "Username": "username01",
    "Password": "password01"
  }
}
```

### Configuration Fields

| Field Name       | JSON Type      | Required? | Description |
|------------------|----------------|-----------|-------------|

> | `Admin`          | `object`       | No        | The `Username` and `Password` fields (as strings) for privileged requests to the witness server. **Note:** Both or none of the admin fields must be set. |

Reviewer 3: Typically we don't put JSON types like "Object" and "String" in `monospace`.

> | `IssuingChain`   | `object`       | Yes       | The parameters for interacting with the issuing chain. |

Reviewer 3: It would be good to include a link or mention that the details of the object format are below

| `LockingChain`   | `object`       | Yes       | The parameters for interacting with the locking chain. |
| `RPCEndpoint`    | `object`       | Yes       | The endpoint for RPC requests to the witness server. |
| `LogFile`        | `string`       | Yes       | The location of the log file. | 

> | `LogLevel`       | `string`       | Yes       | The level of logs to store in the log file. The options are ["All", "Trace", "Debug", "Info", "Warning", "Error", "Fatal", "Disabled","None"]. |

Reviewer 3: Instead of using square brackets, use `monospace` for examples like this.

```suggestion
| `LogLevel`       | `string`       | Yes       | The level of logs to store in the log file. The available log levels, from most to least verbose, are `All`, `Trace`, `Debug`, `Info`, `Warning`, `Error`, `Fatal`, `Disabled`, and `None`. |
```

Also, it might be nice to get clarification on if there's a difference between "Disabled" and "None".

| `DBDir`          | `string`       | Yes       | The location of the directory where the databases are stored. |
| `SigningKeySeed` | `string`       | Yes       | The seed that the witness server should use to sign its attestations. |
| `SigningKeyType` | `string`       | Yes       | The algorithm used to encode the `SigningKeySeed`. The options are `secp256k1` and `ed25519`. |

> | `XChainBridge`   | `XChainBridge` | Yes       | The bridge that the witness server is monitoring. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `XChainBridge`   | Object | Yes       | The bridge that the witness server is monitoring. See [XChainBridge Fields](#xchainbridge-fields) for details. |
```

#### IssuingChain and LockingChain Fields

| Field Name      | JSON Type | Required? | Description |
|-----------------|-----------|-----------|-------------|

> | `Endpoint`      | `object`  | Yes       | The websocket endpoint of a `rippled` node synced with the chain. **Note:** This must be a node you run. |

Reviewer 3: It's kind of unclear who "you" is in this context. Do you mean "run by the same person who runs the Witness Server"?

| `TxnSubmit`     | `object`  | Yes       | The parameters for transaction submission on the chain. |
| `RewardAccount` | `string`  | Yes       | The account that should receive the witness's share of the `SignatureReward` on the chain. |

#### Endpoint Fields

| Field Name | JSON Type | Required? | Description |
|------------|-----------|-----------|-------------|

> | `Host`     | `string`  | Yes       | The IP address of the `rippled` node. **Note:** This doesn't accept URLs |

Reviewer 3: Can this be an IPv6 address, or only IPv4?

Also, end the note with a period.

| `Port`     | `string`  | Yes       | The port used for the websocket endpoint. |

#### RPCEndpoint Fields

| Field Name | JSON Type | Required? | Description |
|------------|-----------|-----------|-------------|

> | `Host`     | `string`  | Yes       | The IP address of the witness server for RPC requests. **Note:** This doesn't accept URLs |

Reviewer 3: Same question about the `Host` of the above table, although bigger question:

Is it necessary to define these separately? Couldn't we just call them both an "Endpoint Object" and have the top-level table say that both fields take an Endpoint Object as specified below?

Author: I think I'd prefer these spilt since they are pointing to different endpoints that serve different functions.

| `SigningKeySeed`    | `string`  | No        | The seed that the witness server should use to sign its transactions on the locking chain. This is required if `ShouldSubmit` is `true`. |
| `SigningKeyType`    | `string`  | No        | The algorithm used to encode the `SigningKeySeed`. The options are `secp256k1` and `ed25519`. This is required if `ShouldSubmit` is `true`. |
| `SubmittingAccount` | `string`  | No        | The account from which the `XChainAddClaimAttestation` and `XChainAddAccountCreateAttestation` transactions should be sent. This is required if `ShouldSubmit` is `true`. |

#### XChainBridge Fields

| Field               | JSON Type | [Internal Type][] | Required? | Description     |
|:--------------------|:----------|:------------------|:----------|:----------------|
| `IssuingChainDoor`  | `string`  | `ACCOUNT`         | Yes       | The door account on the issuing chain. For an XRP-XRP bridge, this must be the genesis account (the account that is created when the network is first started, which contains all of the XRP). |

> | `IssuingChainIssue` | `Issue`   | `ISSUE`           | Yes       | The asset that is minted and burned on the issuing chain. For an IOU-IOU bridge, the issuer of the asset must be the door account on the issuing chain, to avoid supply issues. |

Reviewer 2: Verify the usage of "IOU-IOU" bridge. I'm not surprised that internal engineers would still use this language, but I don't think we're supposed to use it externally.
